.TH "LESSCASE" "1" "January 28, 2014" "lesscase user manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
lesscase \- a LaTeX pre\-processor for formatting uppercase letters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
lesscase [\f[I]options\f[]] [\f[I]file\f[]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
lesscase is a pre\-processor for LaTeX files.
It formats sequences of uppercase letters, e.g., ABC, with TeX\[aq]s
\f[C]\\small\f[] macro, e.g., \f[C]{\\small\ ABC}\f[].
Uppercase letters at the beginning of sentences are not formatted.
The LaTeX macro can be chosen by the user as well as the formatting
conditions.
.PP
lesscase can be configured through its command line arguments as well as
through TeX comments.
In the default configuration, lesscase does not change the content of
any macro argument or environment (different from document).
More (\f[C]conservative\f[]) and less restrictive configuration profiles
(\f[C]busy\f[]) can be activated and adapted.
The default configuration can be restored at any time, even while
processing of the input file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B \f[C]lesscase\f[]
Runs lesscase in filter mode.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]lesscase\ letter.tex\f[]
Processes \f[C]letter.tex\f[] with all inline configurations and
replaces the file with the program output.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]lesscase\ \-\-macro\-arg=\[aq]\\\\lesscase\[aq]\ letter.tex\f[]
Processes \f[C]letter.tex\f[] as above, but uses the macro
\f[C]\\lesscase\f[] instead of the default \f[C]\\small\f[] for
formatting.
The uppercase letters that are to be formatted are passed as argument to
the macro.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]lesscase\ \-x\ ".!?:"\f[]
lesscase uses the colon as the end of a sentence in addition to the
period, the exclamation mark, and the question mark.
Useful in German texts.
.RS
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-prefix=\f[I]path\f[]
Use \f[I]path\f[] as a prefix for all output files.
The input files are not altered.
When you use a prefix, the \f[I]file\f[] argument needs to be a relative
path.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-recursive
Follow recursively \f[C]\\include\f[] and \f[C]\\input\f[] statements in
the LaTeX source code.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-no\-inline
Ignore configuration statements embedded in the LaTeX source code.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-p \f[I]name\f[], \-\-profile=\f[I]name\f[]
Load a specific start configuration.
Use \f[C]conservative\f[] to start with a very restrictive
configuration.
Use \f[C]busy\f[] to start with a configuration that enters all LaTeX
macros and environment.
Use \f[C]clean\f[] to switch off all functionality of lesscase.
You can switch it on using inline configuration later in the LaTeX file.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-x \f[I]chars\f[], \-\-periods=\f[I]chars\f[]
Use a number of characters that mark the end of a sentence.
\f[I]chars\f[] is a character string, no comma or other seperator is
needed.
(Default: "\f[C]\&.!?\f[]")
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-m \f[I]code\f[], \-\-macro=\f[I]code\f[]
Use the macro \f[I]code\f[] for formatting uppercase letters.
The macro \f[I]code\f[] will be put in its own LaTeX block, surrounded
by a pair of \f[C]{}\f[]\-braces.
(Default: "\f[C]\\small\f[]").
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-M \f[I]code\f[], \-\-macro\-arg=\f[I]code\f[]
Similar to \f[C]\-m\f[], but passes the letters as argument to the macro
\f[I]code\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-s \f[I]list\f[], \-\-search=\f[I]list\f[]
A list of LaTeX macros and environments that will be processed by
lesscase.
If \f[I]list\f[] begins with \f[C]+\f[] or \f[C]\-\f[], the
comma\-separated macros and environments will be added or removed from
the internal search list, respectively.
If \f[I]list\f[] begins with \f[C]*\f[] or \f[C]/\f[], the list is reset
to all or none macros and environments, respectively.
The \f[I]list\f[] has to start with one of the four operators.
Macro names start with a backslash, environment names do not have any
prefix.
(Default: "\f[C]+\ document\f[]")
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-i \f[I]list\f[], \-\-isolate=\f[I]list\f[]
A list of LaTeX macros and environments that will be processed
separately from the rest of the text.
The \f[I]list\f[] works as in \f[C]\-\-search\f[].
(Default: "\f[C]+\ \\footnote,\ \\marginpar\f[]")
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-S \f[I]list\f[], \-\-skip=\f[I]list\f[]
A list of LaTeX macros and environments that forces lesscase to ignore
the rest of the LaTeX block.
It can be used to avoid double processing of text.
The \f[I]list\f[] works as in \f[C]\-\-search\f[].
(Default:
"\f[C]+\ \\tiny,\ \\scriptsize,\ \\footnotesize,\ \\small,\ \\large,\ \\Large,\ \\LARGE,\ \\huge,\ \\Huge\f[]")
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-u \f[I]list\f[], \-\-unskip=\f[I]list\f[]
A list of LaTeX macros and environments that undo \f[C]\-\-skip\f[].
The \f[I]list\f[] works as in \f[C]\-\-search\f[].
(Default: "\f[C]+\ \\normalsize\f[]")
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-e \f[I]list\f[], \-\-eos=\f[I]list\f[]
A list of LaTeX macros and environments that mark the end of a sentence.
The \f[I]list\f[] works as in \f[C]\-\-search\f[].
(Default:
"\f[C]+\ \\par,\ \\part,\ \\chapter,\ \\section,\ \\subsection,\ \\subsubsection,\ \\paragraph,\ \\include,\ itemize,\ enumerate,\ description\f[]")
.RS
.RE
.SH INLINE CONFIGURATION
.PP
The following LaTeX comments can be embedded into LaTeX source code and
will reconfigure lesscase while it is parsing the LaTeX source.
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ reset\ profile\f[] \f[I]name\f[]
This comment loads a configuration profile as in the program option
\f[C]\-\-profile\f[].
Use the \f[C]default\f[] as \f[I]name\f[] to restore the default
configuration.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ restore\ profile\f[] \f[I]name\f[]
Same as "\f[C]%\ smallcaps\ reset\ profile\f[] \f[I]name\f[]".
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ store\ profile\f[] \f[I]name\f[]
This comment stores the current configuration profile as \f[I]name\f[].
Existing profiles will be overwritten.
Note that you can very well overwrite the initial configuration
profiles, such as \f[C]default\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ periods\ are\f[] \f[I]chars\f[]
This comment sets the characters that would end a sentence, as in the
program option \f[C]\-\-periods\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ substitution\ in\ block\ with\f[] \f[I]macro\f[]
This comment resets the formatting macro, as in the program options
\f[C]\-\-macro\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ substitution\ as\ argument\ of\f[] \f[I]macro\f[]
This comment resets the formatting macro, as in the program options
\f[C]\-\-macro\-arg\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ search\f[] \f[I]list\f[]
This comment modifies the search list.
Use the \f[I]list\f[] as in the program option \f[C]\-\-search\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ isolate\f[] \f[I]list\f[]
This comment modifies the isolation list.
Use the \f[I]list\f[] as in the program option \f[C]\-\-isolate\f[].
In addition, you may add a profile name as a prefix for a "\f[C]+\f[]"
list or a "\f[C]*\f[]".
The isolated processing will start with this profile for the named
macros and environments.
If no profile name is given, "\f[C]default\f[]" will be used.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ skip\f[] \f[I]list\f[]
This comment modifies the skip list.
Use the \f[I]list\f[] as in the program option \f[C]\-\-skip\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ unskip\f[] \f[I]list\f[]
This comment modifies the unskip list.
Use the \f[I]list\f[] as in the program option \f[C]\-\-unskip\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]%\ smallcaps\ eos\f[] \f[I]list\f[]
This comment modifies the end of sentence list.
Use the \f[I]list\f[] as in the program option \f[C]\-\-eos\f[].
.RS
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
lesscase is known to ignore the tab characters (&) in tabular
environments.
.PP
lesscase does not know about the somewhat more flexible delimiters of
verbatim macros (\f[C]\\verb\f[]).
.SH AUTHORS
Stefan Berthold <stefan.berthold@gmx.net>.
